So let's pop over to pet.jsx.
Well, JS, and
then we're going to rename it to pet.tsx.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
grab function component import,
function component from react,
and we're gonna make this pet a,
function component and
it's got a bunch of props here.
Obviously this is not a, class component,
so let's go ahead and give it some,
IProps or props or whatever you
wanna call this little thing here.
And we're gonna just make an interface,
IProps, and
it's gonna take a name which is a string.
It's gonna take an animal
which is a string.
Take a breed, which is a string, images,
Which is a string array, and location,
which is a string and
ID which has a number, okay?
Now I imagine at least someone
out there is thinking is like,
why don't we just make this pet?
Well, I'm gonna give you two reasons for
that.
One, location is actually different,
right?
So if you remember in pet and
I'll bring that up here so
you can see our API response types.
This gives you city and state and
you might remember from writing in
Complete Intro to React, we actually
put those things together as one thing,
which is a location, so
these actually don't match each other.
The other thing is just kind
of a personal preference.
I try not to make these function,
I always do an IProps thing and
then I'm specific at what I
expected in a component one,
this kind of documentation for
this component.
And two things change over time.
They may not be a pet,
they might be a pet and a thing,
in which case you get into union
typing and things like that and
you're just out in weeds, and
at that point it's like, just be explicit.
This thing expects this and
then it makes it easy to maintain and
read going forward.
Don't get clever with types,
please don't get clever with types,
just be explicit, Okay,
that's it for this I think.
I think everything else is just fine.
So that's all good.
So let's keep going.
We're gonna go do use BreedList.
We're going to rename this to use pre
this ts, there's no JSX in here so
we don't need it to run it through there.
Okay so let's add something
to our, API response types up here.
So go back to that for just a second.
And we're just gonna export a new type in
here, which is a BreedList API response.
So export interface.
BreedList API response.
I like to keep these API response
things in separate in their own files.
If I ever had to call this
BreedList somewhere else,
it wouldn't be stuck in this
weird location of being, hey,
you have to import this custom
hook to get the correct type.
That seems weird to me,
it makes more sense of like, hey,
I have an API response.
I expect that to find that in the API
response TypeScript file This is
preference, I leave it up to you of what
you think is a better way of doing that.
This just makes sense to my
lizard brain that I have.
So an animal, an animal, and
breeds is just an array of strings.
Okay, pretty simple there.
Obvious are at least not a lot to it.
We're gonna go back to
use BreedList now and
we're going to import that
type that we just made.
So we're going to import animal and
BreedList API response.
From ./APIResponseTypes, okay?
So local cache,
this one's kind of fun thing to type.
Because what is local cache gonna be?
Local cache is going to be a list
of arbitrary keys that then
represent objects of
responses are strings rather.
So how do you type that in TypeScript?
Well, you're gonna have an object,
right, which is what it is, oops,
and then it's going to have arbitrary
indexes, which are strings, right?
Which is what this square brackets are,
okay?
And then those are going to
represent strings arrays.
So this is just saying like, I don't know
what the strings are actually gonna be in
here, but
it's just gonna be arbitrary, right?
So these are gonna be indexes or
whatever you choose to call them.
And then those are gonna
be strings themselves.
And now we have local cache,
which as you can see here,
it has arbitrary strings as its keys and
then those keys are going
to represent string arrays.
Okay, and
then I'm gonna have a type status in here.
And I'm gonna keep this type in
here because this is actually very
specific to this custom
hook that we wrote.
And it's gonna be a enumerated
type it's either going to be unloaded or
loading or loaded which is what
we returned down here, okay?
So, function use breed this animal
as you may guess is a animal.
Okay, BreedList and setBreedList,
this is an array, but
we need to tell it what
type of array it is.
So this array is an array of string.
So now it knows that this, because we
give it a default thing here in useState,
it's smart enough knows okay,
this is going to be a string
array that I'm going to get back.
And this is a thing that you can
only call with a string array.
So react has really good typings that way.
Same thing with status and set status.
Right now and
things like this is a string and
we have to let it know specifically
that this is a a status.
So now it knows that you can only
call this with unloaded loading or
loaded and if I call with something
else it's gonna be upset.
Okay, we're gonna have to
cast our API response here.
So this you're gonna have to wrap in this,
wait, This is going to come back,
actually it's the JSON, sorry,
it's this one that you cast.
So whatever this comes back as, we want
to cast that as a bBeedList API response.
So now we know this JSON object has
all the things that we expect out of
a BreedList API object.
Okay.
Let's see what did we miss here,
requestBreedList.
This was kind of a fun one.
So, request free list is
a function it's an a sync
function in what do all
asynchrony functions return,
promises, So
basically any with an a sync function,
no matter what, if you call it the thing
that you get back from it as a promise,
and then you can await the promise to
get whatever you get back from it.
You can see here that we actually
don't return anything out here.
So if you awaited this you
would get undefined, right?
But still,
this is still giving you back a promise.
This is telling me here and
I think this is actually from es lint.
It is TypeScript, floating promises.
It's basically saying,
you need to explicitly tell me that
you're ignoring the promise here.
So the way that you do that
is you just say void, and
that's explicitly saying I do not care
what comes back from this promise.
Cuz we're just calling this and
we're using a sync to make it so
that we can use a sync a weight, right?
So we actually don't care about
the promise coming back hence you have
to say I'm calling something here,
but you can ignore it and move on.
So this will actually make sure
that it returns everything.
Like if you do this x will now be
equal to, Undefined right void.
This keyword void basically means I'm
going to give you something after it.
It's a unary operator, if you want
to get into the technical details.
Whatever comes after this, make it
undefined, cuz I don't care what it is.
Not something we use
a terrible much in JavaScript,
because why would you want
to make something undefined.
This is the one case that
you probably wanna do that.
Again, this is an ESLint rule that's
making us do this TypeScript in general
wouldn't care.
It's just ESLint that cares.
I probably would just go and ignore that
rule if it was me on my own project,
cuz this doesn't really tell me very much.
This and
that tell me the exact same thing, but
someone somewhere felt it was
important to enforce that on us.
Okay, any questions so far?
>> Just real quick, just double check,
void is from just JavaScript
it's not TypeScript [INAUDIBLE].
>> Correct.
>> That's what I thought.
>> Void is a JavaScript keyword.
We just never use it.
The only reason that you would ever use
void is if you wanted to explicitly
communicate your code I
don't care about this.
But usually that's fairly implicit.
In other words, I have never used void
outside of this particular use case.